I will consent tohis marrying whichever girl he chooses   
- So will he come to the ball tomorrow?- I believe so   
- Mr Bennet!- I have to have your muslin! - I'll lend you my green slippers!- They were mine   
- I'll do your mending for a week.- I'll retrim your new bonnet   
Two weeks I'll do it for   
It's not the same!It's not the same   
I can't breathe   
I think one ofmy toes just came off   
If every man does not end the eveningin love with you, then I'm no judge of beauty   
- Or men.- No, they are far too easy to judge   
They're not all bad   
Humourless poppycocks,in my limited experience   
One day,someone will catch your eye, and then you'll haveto watch your tongue   
How good of you to come   
Which of the painted peacocksis our Mr Bingley? He's on the right.On the left is his sister   
- The person with the quizzical brow?- That is his good friend, Mr Darcy   
- He looks miserable, poor soul.- He may be, but poor he is not   
Tell me   
a year,and he owns half of Derbyshire   
The miserable half   
Mr Bennet, you must introduce himto the girls immediately   
Smile at Mr Bingley   
Smile   
Mary   
Mr Bingley, my eldest daughter you know   
Mrs Bennet, Miss Jane Bennet,Elizabeth and Miss Mary Bennet   
It is a pleasure   
I have two others,but they're already dancing   
I'm delighted to make your acquaintance   
And may I introduce Mr Darcyof Pemberley in Derbyshire   
How do you like ithere in Hertfordshire? Very much   
The library at Netherfield,I've heard, is one of the finest   
It fills me with guilt   
I'm not a goodreader   
I prefer being out of doors   
Oh, I mean, I can read, of course   
And I'm not suggestingyou can't read out of doors   
I wish I read more, but thereseem to be so many other things to do   
That's exactly what I meant   
Mama, Mama! You will never, ever believewhat we're about to tell you   
- Tell me!- She's going to take the veil   
- The regiment are coming!- Officers? They're going to be stationedthe whole winter, right here   
- Officers?- As far as the eye can see   
Oh, look.Jane's dancing with Mr Bingley   
Mr Bennet   
- Do you dance, Mr Darcy?- Not if I can help it   
I didn't know you were comingto see me   
What's the matter? We are a long way from Grosvenor Square,are we not, Mr Darcy? I've never seen so many pretty girls   
You were dancingwith the only handsome girl   
She is the most beautiful creatureI have ever beheld   
- But her sister Elizabeth is agreeable.- Perfectly tolerable   
Not handsome enough to tempt me   
Returnto your partner and enjoy her smiles   
You're wasting your time with me   
Count your blessings, Lizzie   
If heliked you, you'd have to talk to him   
Precisely   
I wouldn't dance with himfor all of Derbyshire, let alone the miserable half   
Wait! - I enjoyed that so much, Miss Lucas.- How well you dance, Mr Bingley   
I've never enjoyed a dance so much   
My daughter Janeis a splendid dancer, is she not? She is indeed   
Your friend Miss Lucasis a most amusing young woman   
Oh, yes, I adore her   
- It is a pity she's not more handsome.- Mama! Oh, but Lizziewould never admit that she's plain   
Of course, it's my Jane who's consideredthe beauty of the county   
Mama, please! When she was a gentlemanwas so much in love with her, I was sure he would make her an offer   
However, he did write hersome very pretty verses   
And that put paid to it   
I wonder who discovered the powerof poetry in driving away love   
- I thought poetry was the food of love.- Of a fine, stout love   
But if it is only a vague inclination,one poor sonnet will kill it   
So, what do you recommendto encourage affection? Dancing   
Even if one's partneris barely tolerable   
Mr Bingley is just whata young man ought to be   
- Sensible, good-humoured...- Handsome, conveniently rich..   
Marriage should not be drivenby thoughts of money   
Only deep lovewill persuade me to marry   
- Which is why I'll end up an old maid.- Do you really believe he liked me? He danced with you most of the night,and stared at you the rest   
I give you leave to like him.You've liked many stupider   
You're a great deal too aptto like people in general   
All the worldis good in your eyes   
Not his friend   
I still can't believewhat he said about you   
Mr Darcy? I'd more easily forgive his vanityhad he not wounded mine   
But no matter.I doubt we shall ever speak again   
He danced with Miss Lucas   
We were all there, dear   
It is a shame she's not more handsome   
There's a spinsterin the making and no mistake   
The fourth with a Miss Kingof little standing, and the fifth again with Jane   
If he had any compassion,he would've sprained his ankle   
The way you carry on, you'd think our girls look forwardto a grand inheritance   
When you die,which may be very soon, they will be left without a roof overtheir head nor a penny to their name   
- Please, it's ten in the morning.- A letter to Miss Bennet, ma'am   
From Netherfield Hall   
Praise the Lord   
We are saved! Make haste, Jane,make haste   
Oh, happy day!